There are two main reasons for creating data visualizations,
exploratory analysis, and explanatory analysis.
In previous lessons in this course,
you've learned about exploratory analysis.
Exploratory analysis is done when you are searching for insights in your data.
The visualizations you create in this stage, don't need to be polished,
they only need to convey information for you to answer your research questions.
This lesson, we'll focus on explanatory analysis,
which is done when you communicate your findings to others.
These visualizations need to emphasize
the key messages that you want the viewer to understand.
Compared to exploratory plots,
explanatory plots should be polished
so that their purpose is clear and easy to obtain.
When someone looks at your visualization,
you may not be there in person to explain things.
The goal of explanatory visualization is to make sure that
your reader's interpretation matches what you want to convey.
You'll learn best practices to do that in this lesson.